update tiup document (non-5.0-feature) (#5540)
pingcap/docs: tiup/tiup-component-dm-enable.md

---
title: tiup dm enable
---

# tiup dm enable

> The `tiup dm enable` command is used to set the auto-enabling of the cluster service after a machine restarts. To enable the auto-enabling of the service, this command executes `systemctl enable <service>` at the specified node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tiup dm enable` command is used to set the auto-enabling of the cluster service after a machine is restarted. This command enables the auto-enabling of the service by executing `systemctl enable <service>` at the specified node.
```

## Syntax

```shell
tiup dm enable <cluster-name> [flags]
```

> `<cluster-name>`: the cluster whose auto-enabling service is to be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<cluster-name>` is the cluster whose service auto-enabling is to be enabled.
```

## Options

### -N, --node

> - Specifies the nodes whose auto-enabling service is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node IDs. The node ID is the first column of the cluster status table returned by the `tiup dm display`(/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specifies the nodes whose service auto-enabling is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node IDs. You can get the node IDs from the first column of the cluster status table returned by the `tiup dm display`(/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.
```

> - Specifies the nodes whose service auto-enabling is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node IDs. You can get the node IDs from the first column of the cluster status table returned by the [`tiup-component-dm-display`](/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Specifies the nodes whose service auto-enabling is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node IDs. You can get the node IDs from the first column of the cluster status table returned by the [`tiup dm display`](/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.
```

- Data type: `STRINGS`
- If this option is not specified in the command, the auto-enabling of all nodes is enabled by default.

> **Note:**
>

> > If the `-R, --role` option is specified at the same time, the auto-enabling of services in their intersection is enabled.

Reviewer: ditto

### -R, --role

> - Specifies the roles whose auto-enabling service is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node roles. The role is the second column of the cluster status table returned by the `tiup dm display`(/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specifies the roles whose service auto-enabling is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node roles. You can get the roles of nodes from the second column of the cluster status table returned by the `tiup dm display`(/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.
```

> - Specifies the roles whose service auto-enabling is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node roles. You can get the roles of nodes from the second column of the cluster status table returned by the [`tiup-component-dm-display`](/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Specifies the roles whose service auto-enabling is to be enabled. The value of this option is a comma-separated list of node roles. You can get the roles of nodes from the second column of the cluster status table returned by the [`tiup dm display`](/tiup/tiup-component-dm-display.md) command.
```

- Data type: `STRINGS`
- If this option is not specified in the command, the auto-enabling of all roles is enabled by default.

> **Note:**
>

> > If the `-N, --node` option is specified at the same time, the auto-enabling of services in their intersection is enabled.

Reviewer: ditto
